# Version 0.2.0 (2024-11-26)

Changes since v0.1.0.

# Breaking changes

- The sub-id of a local record identifier must now be a valid alias, _i.e._ it must not be empty and must not contain a colon.
    Leading and trailing whitespace is also trimmed.
    - This means `local:`, `local: `, and `local::` etc are no longer valid identifiers.
        If you have such an identifier in your database (you can check with `autobib util check`), then you can rename it.
        For example, run `autobib local --rename-from ':' colon` to rename `local::` to `local:colon`.
    - `autobib local ' foo '` creates `local:foo` instead of `local: foo `.
- `autobib info` now takes the report type via the `-r`/`--report` option.
- `autobib local` no longer has the `--edit` option.
    The user is now prompted for editing by default.

# New features

- New command `autobib update` updates the data associated with an existing citation key.
    - It supports re-retrieving from the remote provider, or reading update data from file with the `-f`/`--from` option.
    - It prompts for user input if there is a conflict between the current and incoming records.
    - The `--prefer-current` and `--prefer-incoming` options are useful for non-interactive conflict resolution.
- New command `autobib delete` deletes records and their associated keys.
    - It prompts for user confirmation if a record to be deleted has a key that was not supplied in the arguments.
    - The `--force` option is available for deletion without prompting.
- New global option `--no-interactive` is useful for using Autobib headlessly.
    - It stops the editor from being opened when running `autobib edit` and `autobib local`, implies the `--prefer-current` option for `autobib update`, and otherwise results in an error if user action is required.
    - The option is switched on automatically if the standard input is not a terminal.
- `autobib edit` has two new options:
    - `--normalize-whitespace` turns on automatic whitespace normalization;
    - `--set-eprint` allows setting the "eprint" and "eprinttype" BibTeX fields from the provided fields.
- `autobib get` and `autobib source` now suggest valid equivalent keys for an invalid BibTeX citation key.
- `autobib get` and `autobib source` can have their output suppressed with the `--retrieve-only` option.
- `autobib local` creates an alias that is the same as the sub-id of a new local record if the alias is available.
    - This behaviour can be disabled with the `--no-alias` option.
- `autobib local` supports renaming an existing record with the `--rename-from` option.
- `autobib source` now supports LaTeX .aux files.
- `autobib update` can report the last modified time of a cached record.
- A configuration file can be used with Autobib.
    Currently the user can use it to set the data normalization behaviour when new data is retrieved.
- Database path and configuration file path can be set using environment variables.

## Other changes

- `autobib source` now checks the validity of citation keys in .tex files.
- More fields are now captured in arXiv records.
- A bug where two or more `setSpec` tags in arXiv data resulted in an error has been fixed.
- Link-time optimization has been turned on for release builds, reducing the size of the Autobib binary.
- There is no longer a hard-coded limit on the size of a BibTeX record.
- Help messages and error messages have been improved.
